{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}{\f1 Courier New;}}
\fs24
\b ClothLab: Interactive Mass-Spring Cloth Simulation\b0\par
\par
\b Section 1: Project Goals and Technical Approach\b0\par
ClothLab is an interactive computer graphics project focused on physically based cloth animation. The goal is to simulate deformable fabric in real time while preserving stability, exposing the underlying numerical parameters, and producing gradeable visual artifacts in a portable browser-based application. The cloth is modeled as a rectangular grid of particles, each storing its current and previous position. Neighboring particles are linked by three families of springs: structural springs for horizontal and vertical edge preservation, shear springs for diagonal resistance, and bend springs for larger-scale smoothness.\par
\par
Time stepping is performed with Verlet integration. If x_t is the current position and x_(t-dt) is the previous position, the next position is computed using x_(t+dt) = x_t + d(x_t - x_(t-dt)) + a dt^2, where d is damping and a is acceleration from external forces. This formulation avoids explicit velocity storage and is well-suited to interactive cloth simulation. After each integration step, the solver performs multiple iterations of distance-constraint projection. For a spring between particles i and j with rest length L, the current displacement vector is normalized and each endpoint is moved toward satisfying ||x_j - x_i|| = L. This stabilizes the cloth under large deformations more effectively than a naive explicit Hooke's law update at the same frame rate.\par
\par
External forces include gravity and a time-varying wind field. Gravity contributes a constant downward acceleration. Wind is modeled as a combination of low-frequency gusting and higher-frequency local flutter based on particle position and time, producing visually richer motion than a constant directional force. Collision handling is geometric: particles that penetrate the floor are projected upward to the plane height, and particles that penetrate the sphere are projected outward along the sphere normal to the sphere surface. Surface normals are recomputed each frame from the cloth triangles, allowing shaded rendering and optional normal visualization in WebGL.\par
\par
\b Section 2: Implementation, Results, and Limitations\b0\par
The implementation is divided into focused modules. \f1 src/cloth.js\f0\~contains the simulation state, spring generation, force accumulation, Verlet integration, iterative constraint projection, collision handling, and metric computation. \f1 src/renderer.js\f0\~contains the WebGL2 renderer, shader programs, mesh uploads, camera orbit controls, and rendering helpers for the floor, collision sphere, and pin markers. \f1 src/main.js\f0\~connects the simulation to the user interface, binds all controls, drives the animation loop, and exports artifacts such as PNG captures and metrics JSON snapshots. In addition, \f1 scripts/benchmark.mjs\f0\~runs several deterministic benchmark scenarios and writes summary artifacts to the \f1 artifacts/\f0\~folder.\par
\par
The project is engineered for portability and grading convenience. It requires no native compilation and runs through a simple static web server on Ubuntu Linux, macOS, and Windows. The interface exposes multiple presets, adjustable resolution, solver substeps, stiffness, damping, wind, and collision toggles so the presentation can demonstrate both successful behavior and failure modes. The benchmark output provides quantitative support for the writeup by recording average stretch error, maximum stretch error, average cloth height, vertex count, and spring count across multiple scenarios.\par
\par
Known limitations remain. The solver does not implement self-collision, cloth tearing, anisotropic materials, or frictional contact. Collision response uses positional projection rather than a more complete impulse-based or constraint-based contact formulation. The renderer emphasizes clarity over photorealism and therefore omits textures, shadows, and physically based shading. Despite these limitations, the project meets the goals of an advanced graphics topic by combining physically based simulation, interactive rendering, user-controlled experiments, and reproducible benchmark artifacts in a clean submission-ready package.\par
}
